---
layout: post
title: On COVID
subtitle: Reasoning with the gaping maw of despair.
tags: [coronavirus, hope]
comments: true
---

It's interesting, how things always seem to be for a purpose to humans; how things seem to coalesce to a specific plan at a specific time.
We always read into things; diagnose patterns; and make the chaos of the world make sense. We are constantly ensuring that the center can hold.

For me, this year (at least so far) has been one of trying to resolve things.
I'm figuring out the things I want to do, and having, perhaps, a mild case of midlife crisis syndrome.
And I think COVID is a pretty obvious trigger for some of it.
There's a sort of reckoning with your own mortality, that's normal to humans. But sometimes it can become ... too normal.

People die. (So many people die every day, to be honest.)
COVID deaths as a statistic aren't even that high, compared to other deaths. Aging will always be the largest killer of humanity. So many deaths.
What's scary about COVID to me, at least here in the US, isn't the disease itself. Not really. It's about what the disease exposes in our systems, and what is required to fight it.
What's scarier - that 200,000 people in the US are dead, or that half of 300,000,000 people in the US can't agree with "If we listen to scientists we can help slow this disease"?
And it makes you think: how can I change this? How can I get people to understand? How can there be understanding throughout?

And the isolation doesn't help. One becomes stir-crazy, especially on one's lonesome, and circling a path by yourself is honestly not as much fun as I'd like.
It's a bearable thing, but also an exasperating one, especially here. You see everyone who is isolating, attempting to help everyone else, and then people just ... ignoring isolation. This causes a need for more isolation. The cycle continues.

So both this isolation and this ... disallusionment with how society gets people to reason aboutthings, leads very easily to questioning the way that things are.
I ask myself things like:
Are the things I do meaningful? What can I do that /is/ meaningful? What is life going to be about, in the end?
And when people - most, if not all people - seem to not desire to connect: how can we get, societally, to a good place?

I don't know these answers, but I do know that what I'm doing right now - for my job, for my hobbies, for my life - doesn't seem to have a larger meaning beyond survival.
And I'd like it to have an answer to one of those questions, in at least one of those aspects. I know it's almost the height of being spoiled, but it's something I feel I have to strive for, if I can.

For now, though, I am working on myself, in preparation for being able to attempt to answer that question; either that, or attempting to help push towards an answer to it.
It feels almost like slumbering: one attempts to set up the dominos just right, position the last one,
and then, carefully (carefully!), flick it with the barest hint of a finger,
then run along the path as they topple, straightening them out if they start to wobble,
and ensuring that all of the dominos fall in the correct place.
